one of the workshops at the politics of
conspiracy conference held in Boston the
weekend of February 1st 1975 was called
domestic intelligence but more than that
was revealed the conference was
sponsored by the cambridge-based
assassination information Bureau the
panelists at the workshop were Mark Lane
and Donald freed co-authors of executive
action Richard Popkin author of the
second Oswald and Tim Butz of the Fifth
Estate that's an organization concerned
with keeping a citizen eye on the
intelligence community we begin with Tim
BOTS like his foreign counterpart
domestic intelligence operations do not
exist in a vacuum nor are they they
mounted arbitrarily and capriciously but
rather domestic intelligence operations
are mounted for very specific reasons
after a very scientific analysis of
available facts conducted by the various
organizations which conduct domestic
intelligence operations if we were to
sit in this room and try and make a list
of those organizations I think we could
come up with some 200 US government
intelligence I'm not not intelligence
organizations but US government
organizations which collect information
of an intelligence value and store that
and make that available to other
organizations other government
organizations and in some cases private
and corporate organizations for the
purpose of intelligence we all know
about the the traditional agencies such
as the FBI the Central Intelligence
Agency last night NBC began to expose
the fact that the National Security
Agency the nation's electronic warfare
arm was now engaged in domestic
operations we know of the Drug
Enforcement Agency but how many of us
know of ta d40 which is the Treasury not
Treasury but Transportation Department's
intelligence unit that was mounted
during the trucker's strike and
continues today to collect intelligence
information on dissident truckers
operations against labor operations
against students operations against
anti-war forces operations against
third-world movements are all mounted by
the federal government by various arms
of the federal gov
because those movements pose a threat to
the security of the state when those
those movements become a threat to a
state they become a threat to corporate
power when they become a threat to both
corporate power into the state then
action must be taken I think the most
classic example of how far the US
government and and the corporations are
willing to go and and mounting domestic
intelligence operations is the FBI's
counterintelligence program and last
night a fewer at the the initial meeting
last night I talked for just a few
minutes about COINTELPRO I'd I'd like to
expand on that a little bit before
turning the microphone over to mark on
the night of March 8th 1971 a group of
people broke into an FBI office in media
Pennsylvania and liberated a large
series of documents which have since
become known as the media papers for
those of you who are interested in
investigating the FBI especially I
really urge you to get a copy of the
media papers which are available from
Wynn magazine in Riften New York they
did a special issue where they they
reproduced some documents and retype
setting and publish the bulk of other
documents relating to domestic
intelligence operations and buried in
that 60-70 some pages of media papers in
wind magazine was one loan document with
one word on it that has led to the
uncovering of the entire COINTELPRO
thing and that was a memorandum from an
FBI officer FBI agent in media to a
professor at a college offering it
discussed the the offer of material that
would pose a right-wing analysis of the
campus threat of Campins campus
disturbances and on the routing form for
this memo is the word COINTELPRO and
when lots of people looked at that
series of documents everyone saw the
word COINTELPRO but only one person did
anything about it that man's name was
wrong
Plus er is Rhon plus er he's a
Washington attorney and acting on behalf
of Carl stern Ron + er filed a Freedom
of Information Act suit against the FBI
for the revelation of all documents
relating to COINTELPRO it was subjected
to several hearings and finally on
December 7th I believe it was 1973 the
FBI released a series of documents which
outlined seven areas of FBI
counterintelligence operations those
documents showed that in in 1957 the
Communist Party was subjected to an FBI
counterintelligence program that in 1961
that program was expanded to include the
Socialist Workers Party that in 1964 as
a result of the death of civil rights
workers in the south and the cry from
the liberal community that the FBI
attacked racist groups in the South
there was a counterintelligence program
mounted against the Ku Klux Klan in 1967
there was a fourth counterintelligence
program mounted against what J Edgar
Hoover turned black nationalist and in
1968 the new left in the documents that
that were released Hoover is very
explicit as to why counterintelligence
programs are necessary he wanted the FBI
to be able to quote expose disrupt
misdirect miss credit or otherwise
neutralize dissident forces it's very
important that we look at at each and
every one of those exposure in Hoover's
in Hoover's view that meant to show the
communist element that was behind every
threat to the US government what he
viewed as the communist element people
working in coalition's with communists
were automatically branded communist
people working on anything outside of a
pro-government program were to be
exposed as communist disruption in in
the
documents and subsequent documents
released by the FBI disruption is very
clearly outlined that is to play upon
the personal differences such as Don was
talking about that exist within
organizations and to blow those up as
far as possible so as to defuse energy
to defuse people's hopes to defuse
people's vision and focus of what the
political task at hand was and and to
send them off into a thousand directions
to discredit the same same areas
exposure to try and you know if public
reaction to red-baiting
does not have the desired results you'll
have something to the effect of Hoover's
allegations against the berrigan's
before the the Harrisburg indictments
where he tried to discredit the entire
religious left by talking about a
fantastic kidnapping plan targeted
against the Secretary of State and the
blowing up of tunnels inside the halls
of Congress and fine we have or
otherwise neutralized and this is this
is kind of like the catch-all phrase and
and perhaps it's the most scary phrase
and the one that that leaves the door
open to the fact that at various times
perhaps even the FBI I which is supposed
to be the highest law enforcement agency
in the country has considered the use of
political assassinations neutralizes a
term that has come to signify the
Phoenix program because the Phoenix
program in Vietnam which which killed
over 20,000 Vietnamese in the name of
anti-communism was a design was designed
to neutralize the infrastructure of the
National Liberation Front of South
Vietnam
now whether Hoover used neutralize
strictly as a euphemism for
assassination or whether he meant at its
in its more general term is is something
that we'll all be debating for a number
of years and mr. Hoover having died of
course will never be able to reach his
real motives on that but we do know that
that the FBI has basically admitted to
every sort of tactic short of
assassination in the conduction of its
counterintelligence programs
agent provocateurs have have infiltrated
demonstrations
deep-cover agents have penetrated
organizations never disrupting but
simply collecting intelligence and
feeding that back to two FBI agents who
had then send in short term agents to
disrupt the conspiratorial
counterintelligence programs basically
had no limits its only limit was in the
fact that they proceeded scientifically
that they didn't act rashly that they
didn't allow their emotions to carry it
out something on the spur of the moment
and this was programmed into the into
the entire counterintelligence operation
by Hoover himself
what Hoover did when he established the
first COINTELPRO process and as it grew
through 1968 was to set up a mechanism
and I think we can all accept the fact
that John edgar Hoover was a god inside
the FBI that no FBI agent would dared
cross him that no FBI agent would ever
do anything that would violate the
letter or the spirit of a Hoover order
and it's in that light that we have to
to look at the process by which Cohen
tell Pro is was conducted in every FBI
field office throughout the country
there is one agent who was assigned to
be the counterintelligence program
coordinator this agent ran informants
and and collected intelligence through
other methods through overt methods such
as newspapers and and whatnot and made
an analysis of the weaknesses of
dissident organizations based on those
facts and then he might discuss those
weaknesses with with his counterparts
and his superiors or he may he may
summarily decide that a certain course
of action would serve to expose disrupt
misdirect discredit or otherwise
neutralize the organization that was
written up in the form of proposal you
know even though the time may be right
for for doing it now
the agent had to wait he had a write a
letter which went to two Hoover's office
in Washington where William Sullivan was
the primary coordinator of the
counterintelligence program and that
that proposal to disrupt or neutralize
dissident organization was judged right
in in the very offices of the director
of the FBI mm some counterintelligence
program operations are admitted to by
the FBI and every one of those
operations was approved by headquarters
in Washington now it's obviously that
some of those decisions were made as a
matter of you know bureaucratic paper
shuffling some one were very simple some
were were misinformation operations
where false information was leaked or
false information planted within an
organization in order to create distrust
or to to make people believe there is a
political climate that existed that was
counterpose to what the reality of a
political situation was and some of
those operations were much higher than
that some of them were very serious
things we may never know exactly what
all 2,000 of those operations are
there's there are some people who are
continuing to pursue discovery through
the Fred Hampton case and in other cases
that involve the FBI that that may show
us what what the final blows were from
Hoover's office but it I think would be
naive on our part to think that that
Sullivan and Hoover acted without
consultation with other people that they
had their own circle of advisers and
that within that circle those
counterintelligence operations were at
times I won't say every time and for
everyone but but it's my firm belief
that that those operations some of those
operations were discussed with people
outside the bureau and finally a
decision is reached out of the over
5,000 some requests made by FBI agents
to conduct counterintelligence
operations something like 2,500 were
approved a little over half of them were
approved and carried out by the FBI
between 1957 and April 19th 1971 it was
the actual exposure of them that was
generated from the media papers that we
feel led to the the abolition of
counterintelligence program less than
than 35 days after the media break-in
and the documents marked COINTELPRO
taken from the FBI office the program
was was suddenly terminated at least
officially and was terminated only as a
consolidated program they have to
remember that then on April 19th 1971
when Hoover ordered the program
terminated
approximately 2000 Vietnam veterans had
just arrived in Washington DC for the
first large veterans demonstration that
they were to demonstrate for a week they
were to be followed by a week of
aggressive lobbying by predominantly
pacifist organizations and then Mayday
was coming when when thousands of people
were going to go into the streets and
risk beating and deaths to stop the
government and force the government to
escalate the cost of the war to such a
point that they had to force total and
immediate American withdrawal and it's
it's very strange that Hoover would
abolish this program at at such a point
such a critical point when one of the
primary focuses of counterintelligence
operations had been the anti-war
movement and when you sit back and you
you read the press reports especially of
the FBI's version of COINTELPRO they all
say the program ran through these dates
and that that after April 19th 1971
there is no more COINTELPRO but but
nothing could really be further from the
truth
what Hoover did when he abolished the
counterintelligence program is that he
told his FBI agents at every field
office that if they wanted to carry out
counterintelligence operations in the
future what they had to do was file a
request but they could no longer use the
COINTELPRO
caption on the document that the program
as a consolidated program was abolished
and that every counterintelligence
program act type activity would have to
be considered on what Hoover called a
case-by-case basis according to its case
caption file in other words if I wanted
to if I as an FBI agent and I wanted to
conduct a counterintelligence operation
against the Black Panther Party in in my
area instead of writing a request and
following the procedures of COINTELPRO I
would simply write a letter and forward
it to the Black Panther Party
coordinating section of the FBI in
Washington and then it would be taken
and a decision made within within the
directors level and assistants directors
assistant directors level that is how
the FBI has circumvented the public
outrage on COINTELPRO it is one thing
that the media for whatever reasons it
has whether it's incapable of reading
and understanding the documents or
whether it if it refuses to believe that
counterintelligence operations could
still be continuing today there just has
not been any any real emphasis in the
press on the fact that that Hoover left
a very clear road open for
counterintelligence programs there have
been there have been some books written
about COINTELPRO ironically the the most
revealing book about COINTELPRO is
written by a from a a liberal right
standpoint of how the FBI smashed the Ku
Klux Klan and it was written before
people knew that there is actually
something called COINTELPRO and I wish
that I had the name of with me but I
don't and rather than go into a long
rambling thing much longer on COINTELPRO
for for those of you that are interested
there's this tabloid that's available
out of near the registration area that
was prepared by the Fifth Estate that
outlines how COINTELPRO is carried out a
little bit more detail and some of the
documents that relate to Cohen tell pro
are reproduced in it the the final thing
I'd like to say on Cohen tel probe is
that
we are proceeding with an investigation
of the death of Fred Hampton from a
slightly different standpoint of things
that have been done in the in the past
the forensic evidence on the death of
Fred Hampton has proved that the
Panthers inside the apartment on
December 4th 1969 in Chicago did not
fire the first shot at the state
attorney's police as they raided the the
apartment and I believe was 4:00 a.m. or
4:30 a.m. the first shots were in fact
fired by the police and there's been a
book called search-and-destroy written
by a commission of people headed by
Ramsey Clark and Roy Wilkins which
outlines that forensic evidence very
well and when when these
counterintelligence program documents
were released
Hoover really centered in on black
nationalists and people that he thought
were capable of coalescing a black
movement inside this country and taking
it beyond the nationalist movement into
a multiracial movement for social change
and on March 4th 1968 after he had
already established a
counterintelligence program against
black nationalist groups Hoover wrote a
second memo ordering his agents into
some very specific tasks for for
counterintelligence operations against
black organizations and I think it
reflects what eventually became Hoover's
hopes and views for all
counterintelligence operations against
all segments of society the first thing
on that list is that Hoover wanted to
prevent the rise of a black Messiah
someone who would and that was Hoover's
term a black Messiah who could coalesce
and energize blacks and lead them away
from the liberal doctrine of
non-violence that is those are
paraphrasing Hoover's words second he
wanted to prevent a coalition first a
coalition of black organizations and
secondly a coalition of black
organizations and white militants third
he wanted to prevent quote the gaining
of respect and quote for any black
nationalist movement he wanted to
prevent the long-range growth of black
organizations inside the United States
and
and last on the list was he wanted to
prevent violence that from the hands of
black Nationals when when the FBI
released a report on November 17th of
last year on the depth of COINTELPRO
they admitted to the five areas that I
just talked about swp Communist Party
New Left Klu Klux Klan and black
nationalist counterintelligence programs
they also admitted they had two programs
that that weren't previously explained
one dealing with Soviet satellite
intelligence in other words FBI
activities to neutralize the KGB and
they refused to comment on that for
national security reasons and reasonable
people in society could say well yes you
know we can't compromise our operations
against a foreign intelligence force
operating inside our own country so they
didn't release any information on Soviet
satellite COINTELPRO but there was a
seventh area of counterintelligence
program that that they also refused to
comment on that was special operations
and they said that they couldn't comment
on special operations because it also
dealt with foreign intelligence
operations efforts to neutralize Chinese
agents operating inside the United
States but with mr. Kelly forgot to say
when he released that report or what he
forgot to think of when he was
authorizing and finalizing that document
is the FBI itself had released documents
concerning special operations COINTELPRO
which show in fact that it was targeted
at least in part against the Black
Panther Party why would they want to
cover up if they admit to operations
against black nationalist organizations
and and other segments of society why do
they want to cover up why they want to
keep secret what was done under special
operations we have this to this basic
fact to operate on the FBI lied about
special operations that the FBI provided
much of the information that led to the
raid on on the Panther apartment on
December 4th
that just knowing those two facts and
understanding the Connor intelligence
program we feel that that some of the
truths behind how far
counterintelligence operations inside
the United States would go are contained
in that area called Special Operations
and that's where our our energies in
terms of an investigation are going to
to be perhaps a little bit different
from those of other researchers and
other investigators in that we have now
identified a specific area of government
operations that we feel can be tied in
or maybe the root of a political
assassination and there are others here
at this conference that will disagree
with me on this and I respect their view
who feel that it may have been done by
another government agency that perhaps
the Central Intelligence Agency was
involved and I encouraged them to to
continue their efforts just as we were
going to continue ours to investigate
FBI counterintelligence programs J Edgar
Hoover was a racist pig and nothing
scared him more than then then Fred
Hampton and the kind of militancy and
the kind of internationalism that Fred
Hampton represented and I firmly believe
that that when we dig into Special
Operations when when the truth is
finally known when more people inside
the FBI take the turns that Bill Turner
has took or Philip Agee from the CIA
have took we will eventually find out
the truth there are other things to talk
about in terms of domestic operations
like I said counterintelligence program
is just one operation carried out by one
organization and there there are dozens
of others military intelligence it
continues to to operate within the
confines of the United States they've
cleaned their act up a little bit but
veterans organizations radical veterans
organizations and GI projects are
targeted by those organizations drug
enforcement is escalating god only knows
what what sort of prototype operations
are being refined and under its AG's
last year in in Portage County Ohio
young kent state student was killed by a
local drug enforcement agent who is
operating in a federally funded Drug
Enforcement program called m80 Drug
Enforcement method ma T stood for
mahoning Ashtabula and Trumbull counties
and we've been we've been checking
around the country a little bit as we
travel we find out that that this little
three County Drug Enforcement Agency
isn't an aberration but rather it's a
there's a pattern of them existing in
different parts of the country and so
one of the energies and one of the
focuses that should be had by people
investigating domestic intelligence
operation is what are are the police
scientists what are the the masters of
police science learning from the use of
multi municipal multi County police
forces and strike forces and how are
they going to apply that to other areas
of social behavior how are they going to
apply that to the political arena I
don't want to say much more I think that
I'd like to turn the microphone over to
mark and close by saying that you know
there's 200 agencies out there and and
we all know they have something going
and and anything that anybody here can
add to that is is definitely welcome
next to speak on the panel is Mark Lane
author of rush to judgment I'd like to
discuss briefly the question of domestic
intelligence and how it was applied and
how it is being applied for the purpose
of supporting the greatest cover-up in
our country's history the assassination
of President Kennedy and to place that
discussion in the context of politics in
recent days
it's during the latter part of the
century we've seen the development of
extremely strong executive for the first
time in our country's history an
executive which is so strong that it has
utilized and compromised the other two
theoretically equal branches of
government the legislature and the
judiciary and there's no better example
of that I think than the utilization of
the legislature and the judiciary and
support of the executive document the
Warren Commission report was done very
cleverly and it had to be done cleverly
because they expected us to accept
something which was not acceptable and
which the fact millions of people did
accept the concept that every time any
important political leader in this
country is assassinated or wounded that
we ought to believe that one lone nut'
did it and we are to believe that as
soon as the first FBI agent or local
police officer makes that statement
before the pistol has cooled that that
is to be accepted by us before that
let's say oswald let's say the forensic
evidence never showed that shots came
from two different directions let's say
all the evidence showed that in fact
Oswald fired the shot all of the shots
how would they know the first day that
he did it alone how would they know that
he'd not talked to people someone had
not paid him had not been a conspiracy
in which he was the lone actor
participate yet in every one of the
assassinations or the attempted
assassination of George Wallace there is
the instant report by the police a lone
nut' did it by himself before even the
beginning of an adequate investigation
to determine whether or not someone else
had inspired him so weird we were
expected to accept that at the same time
we were expected to accept the concept
that two priests and five nuns entered
into conspiracy to
the tunnels in Washington and kidnap
Henry Kissinger and what would they do
with him after they had him who would
want him in any event in any event that
is a conspiracy that we are supposed to
accept because the jury didn't but a
grand jury did prior to that we are
supposed to accept the idea that dr.
Benjamin Spock
the baby doctor entered into a massive
conspiracy and some people accepted that
in fact so did Ramsey Clark who
prosecuted him way to change his mind so
those are the conspiracies which are
acceptable as far as the government is
concerned although there is no basis for
them although a jury carrying the
evidence rejects them and every other
major conspiracy which has been
submitted to American juries in the last
five years all rejected all acquitted
all the defendants but the only area
where according to the power structure
no conspiracy ever takes place is the
conspiracies when they are involved in
trying to bring about direct political
change by direct political action
doodles through the utilization of
firearms and we are supposed to accept
the fact that there was no conspiracy in
any of those events
that's a hard a hard job that they're
faced with and they have met that very
difficult task splendidly through the
utilization of the domestic intelligence
services in this country first of all
let's see how they utilize the other
portions of government do you remember
the days most of you probably don't if
Franklin Delano Roosevelt when he was
president if he went into a restaurant
in Washington DC and in that same
restaurant 50 yards away in a large
restaurant
was a member of the United States
Supreme Court eating dinner
that was a headline in the Hearst
Newspapers about how they were together
he's supposed to be separate branches of
government and it is true that they were
there was a great concern about
separating those branches yet when the
time came when the crunch came and it
seemed essential for the power structure
to prove that Oswald was
an assassin the President of the United
States called upon the Chief Justice to
issue and a report never happened before
in the history of this country that such
a thing was done and the judiciary was
compromised how compromised were they
when I criticized the Warren Commission
report and said I didn't believe it I
remember the bar in New York I was
called before the committee of
discipline of the New York State Bar
Association Association the bar of the
city of New York and they began
disciplinary proceedings which might
have led to my disbarment what was the
charge that I publicly contested the
statement made by the Chief Justice of
the United States that was the sole
charge and that was becoming a very
serious question at that time and I
talked to Ed Ennis who was then general
counsel of the ACLU who had been
Solicitor General of the United States
under Roosevelt and he came in and
represented me and I think had it not
been for his representation he did a
very good job but for the fact that he
represented a certain force that they
would have moved forward against a
lawyer for saying I don't believe the
Warren Report
and that is that is the utilization of
the judiciary to silence all those who
in any way are controlled or can be
influenced by the judiciary and how
about the legislature well during the
latter part of this century the federal
legislature almost has not functioned at
all the Lyndon Johnson wanted a blank
check
then there's the Gulf of Tonkin
Resolution which even Fulbright voted
for right there by do whatever you want
chief executive and taking that one step
further the President of the United
States secured the Chairman as the
chairman the chief justice and then
involved the legislature by having the
two major leaders of the Republican
Party in the House and the Senate and
the Democratic Party in the House and
the Senate serve on the Warren
Commission including Ford who is then
the whip
publicly party in the house and that way
we now have under the roof of the chief
executive the force which controls the
secret police under that roof we now
have a report issued by the chief
executive util is not utilizing a secret
police and compromising the judiciary
and the legislature and who was to
complain after that it's similar to the
use of the legislature regarding the the
illegal acts of the Central Intelligence
Agency
until this session of Congress no one in
Congress dared to raise the question of
CIA and it's illegal actions because
there was an oversight committee CIA
Oversight Committee
it's true they were not told very much
but they were told just enough so that
Stennis for example senator Stennis knew
enough to be compromised and knee for he
did everything he could he fought tooth
and nail to become the chairman of the
committee which was going to investigate
the CIA but he was so deeply implicated
himself and so deeply involved because
as chairman of the Oversight Committee
he was given information took no action
and therefore was possible for the CIA
to say as they have said and as they
continue to say Congress knew about it
for as ninety nine senators didn't know
about it and over 400 members the house
didn't know about it but a few key
persons knew enough about what had taken
place so that the Congress was
compromised well now we have seen a new
development it's a brand new development
flowing from Watergate from the urban
commission report the urban committee
investigation report from the awareness
what took place and even back in 1964
there was fear because there was such
concern in this country about the charge
that Osmel was alone assassin there was
fear then that the legislature might do
something
in fact at the time the wiring
Commission was appointed there are two
committees in the house and two
committees in the Senate that said they
were going to conduct an investigation
each of them and to the assassination of
John Kennedy and quickly the Warren
Commission was appointed utilizing
members of the House members of the
Senate and that was the end of any
investigation now the difference between
what Evan did with that committee and
what Warren did with his commission was
clear and one of the differences is we
saw what happened when the witnesses
testified before the Ervin committee
nobody had a suit
didn't make any difference whether urban
and his committee ever issued a report
we saw it ourselves we draw our own
conclusions Warren Commission met and
cop secrecy behind closed doors in fact
after the first day the meetings took
place and the Veterans of Foreign Wars
building after the first day Earl Warren
came down the press around him Marina
Oswald too testified and a reporter said
when will we get the facts mr. chief
justice and he said you may never get
the facts in your lifetime and I mean
that seriously that was the statement
and it had we decided to rely upon him
and his six colleagues we never would
have gotten the facts in our lifetime
and yet the press was not even concerned
about that there was no outrage about
the crime what was what was secret about
an investigation make there are secrets
I mean if one believes that the CIA has
any valid role at all to play I'm not
one of those who take that position but
that's the way I'll be thrown estimate
that's the way the the matter was
investigated and having compromised the
legislature having compromised the
judiciary with the chief executive
utilizing the police forces that
appeared to be no way that it would be
possible to expose what was taking place
and the first approach there are three
basic approaches that the government
used in terms of its domestic
intelligence operation the first was
silence Network radio and TV not one
word of dissent in this country for two
years from the time those shots were
fired
I believe that now right you heard on
the radio see to the newspapers two
solid years without a single word
permitted in which someone said I adopt
the Warren Report well maybe there's a
question two years without a question
being raised a network radio television
program in this country do you really
believe that somehow every network in
this country every single program which
was syndicated they just all decided on
their own that this is just not a
subject to be discussed and then all of
a sudden a couple years later they all
decided it was what brought about the
change well for example The Associated
Press and the United Press International
have in the New Haven the New York
offices employees of the Central
Intelligence Agency and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation whose primary
job they also get paid by UPI and ap
whose primary job is for was if a story
comes in which has information which is
derogatory to the Central Intelligence
Agency
well the FBI their job is to stop the
story file a hold against it that's one
of the techniques and state that more
infant hold don't send it out more
information coming in the end and it
will be all this will be incorporated in
the next story no more information ever
comes in there's nothing to incorporate
and that story is killed effectively CIA
and the FBI have such operations that in
most of the major cities in this country
the secret of the story does not even
reach New York for example the UPI filed
story here yesterday
in Boston about the conference about an
aspect of the conference that's oh you
didn't hear anything I said so far
I'll speak louder I think these the UPI
reporter here for our story yesterday in
Boston okay that story goes to Boston
goes out here in Boston in order for the
story to be stopped entirely there would
have to be someone at the Boston office
who files a hold here otherwise it goes
on to New York and can be stopped in New
York by someone associated with the CIA
or the FBI and the payroll was working
also ostensibly for UPI in this case or
for AP but there has to be someone at
both cities in order to make sure that
in case it does get from here to there
it stopped there and gets no further
this story as I understand it did get
out but it's now 11 years after the fact
and it took a long time we have this
there are correspondence now the letter
is now available among the lawyers of
the warren commission talking about well
this person is going to make a statement
contact the our contact at the AP make
sure it does not go out because the
letters now we find now 11 years later
in terms of of their utilization of the
intelligence force is available to them
and that worked for a while at work for
some time ii ii area when that stops
working when it is possible to prevail
to reach large numbers of people in this
country is to find some way to answer
those charges the answer the charges to
engage in some kind of a debate and that
took a long time that took over two and
a half years before the government felt
so much had come out despite every
effort but there was no way to pretend
that it wasn't happening it was out
there reaching millions of people in
this country flow and i remember way
back in december of 1963 but doing radio
programs in new york city and then we
would be invited and we doin by
telephone to other cities then we go out
and we travel around flow kennedy what
then the judge would get our ass yeah
then there was some problems of that
nature but it was possible in college
campus I spoke I think at 300 college
campuses at first year following the
assassination did was possible to reach
large numbers of people not through the
network media and when that had happened
when it was possible to reach enough
people then the intelligent forces we
utilize another way it was impossible to
suppress it obviously it was out the
secret was no longer secret to many
people but sharing then the question is
how do you answer it The Associated
Press sent out a scurrilous attack on
the critics in the longest original
story ever filed by The Associated Press
in its history was nothing but a
scurrilous attack upon every critic of
the Warren Commission report in which
our views were presented and destroyed
and not one of the critics whose views
were presented was ever interviewed was
just their view of what we must have met
which was then after the straw man was
erected it was then then demolished and
we saw not only aap we saw CBS this was
a this was not a question serious enough
to permit one world of debate until that
time on a network program and that is
Walter Cronkite four hours four nights
in a row to support the Warren
Commission report a subject so
unimportant but not one word of
controversy about it had been permitted
by then for up until three years with
CBS and that was done but then there was
Jim Garrison how do you handle Jim
Garrison and so there was a two-hour
program by NBC and Huntley and Brinkley
were told to do it and they said no they
refused to and so it was given to Frank
McGee and he agreed to do it and moved
up rapidly Maharaja of MPC because he
did the job as distasteful as it was to
him he did the job on Jim Garrison and
then there was a record come it was at
Columbia Records that did a large Siller
I don't know if you know that name
Lawrence
okay he went around interviewing the
critics he said.he there's no question
but he really believed he really
believed that there was something wrong
and he put the evidence together on a
record which Columbia released he
interviewed me for about three hours I
think one of my sentences is on there
out of context and distorted but they
sold the record here the story about the
assassination here what Mark Lane has to
say about this that first one was the
headline one sentence on there and a
full LP record but the rest of it was
the attack upon us put out by Columbia
Records and our record to get an
injunction to stop it absolutely
impossible even though there was a great
deal of false advertising involved then
there's an investigation which has been
set up there and one of the well-known
reporters in the New York Times first of
all there was Peter Keyes who have been
with the New York Times of 25 years the
finest reporter that I've ever met
because when when you tell us something
to Peter case and you say these are the
three sources
he travels there but he makes the phone
calls and he checks that and they say
well I got it from this and he checks it
out every single detail and four days
late and he may just publish one
paragraph but that's the old kind of
facts old-fashioned journalism which for
years so in the movies 20 years ago it's
all accurate because he's all checked it
all out and I've never heard of him
being in position or anybody said it was
not true where it's unfair because he
checks out every single detail and when
he saw this a prude of film Peter Keyes
to the New York Times he cried and he
wanted to see the managing editor he
said they blew his head off look at this
they blew his head off and we haven't
told the truth about it they said all
right there'll be an investigation that
Harrison Salisbury was come to the
investigation with them but then they
called him often it was canceled and
there never was the investigation where
did that pressure come from I don't know
I know where the pressure came come from
to keep rush to judgment from being
published I talked about that last night
direct intervention by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation going to the
publishers of books and saying you
cannot publish this book we do not want
this book published and so that's the
second stage
a stage of answering but it's not really
an answer
it's a scurrilous attack taking our
position out of context but didn't work
then they published books called the
scavengers but nobody buys them and
Columbia record was doing really well
first week it was dynamite was out there
well yet hear what the critics have to
say and then we went on a network
television program a couple of us and
said it's untrue doesn't tell what we
have to say we'll try to get the record
stop the sales fell off like that it was
the end of the record he only sold for
one week and so the answers never really
worked when they were not answers
because people were too intelligent to
do it that and so they said okay we got
to debate them it's got to be a
confrontation that's the only way so
they sent Alfred Jenner one of the
lawyers of the Commission to to debate
with me and the Jerry Williams show when
Jerry had the show in Chicago the CBS
show and we were going to be on from 8
o'clock to midnight and we were on Jerry
I was on Jerry Williams show last night
and he recalled the event this is his
language not mine there's no modesty or
lack of it involved anyone who knew
anything about the Warren Commission
report could have prevailed easily over
mr. Jenner he only wrote about half of
it and didn't know anything at all about
the evidence in the case and Jerry
Williams said last night he as he was
recalling that moment he said Jenna was
shaking Jenna was lacerated and
destroyed and then at about 11 o'clock
at night this they had received in
Chicago they had a computer on to find
how many calls had come in 15,000
telephone calls 15,000 telephone calls
had come in and so they agreed to keep
the microphone open CBS rearranged his
schedule we're going to their all night
long Jerry Williams and generally
answering phone calls and Jenna said I
just understand that I have to catch a
plane to Los Angeles and I have to leave
right now and so he left before the
program was over and of course the first
thing we did during the commercial break
was to call the airlines and discover
that there were no planes going to Los
Angeles
okay that was that was one effort that
and then Jenna said he would never again
debate with any of us and so far as I
know he's kept his commitment and there
was another another lawyer for the
Commission named Joseph Baal was in Los
Angeles of Beverly Hills he was gonna
bait me at the Beverly Hills High School
and we agreed a new place was mob got
two or three thousand people and he was
a lawyer for the Commission who had made
who was who played a key role in
developing the material around what took
place in Dealey Plaza
it's a crucial person and just before
the debate began he said this is the way
it's gonna have to go this is the only
way I'll agree I speak first he speaks
first 45 minutes followed by another
lawyer associated with him who would
then speak for half an hour and then our
wearin of the American Civil Liberties
Union who supported their position was
then going to speak for 15 minutes then
I had 20 minutes to speak and the rest
of the evening they would question me
but I couldn't question them so how do
you feel about that and I said great
let's go out and do it and that's what
we did and they and they then said that
they would never debate again with any
of the critics of the war on quarters
and the last one was that I recall was
Louie Nizer right and Louie NIH's was
going to do a television debate in New
York City on Metromedia and he said his
terms were that before we did any
questioning of each other he was going
to speak for 45 minutes I said okay fine
and that's what he did and then he said
he would never debate anyone again about
on the Warren Report and he never did so
that that area failed because the there
is no defense for the Warren Commission
report and although they tried that with
some of I guess the best they had to
offer they never made out a very good
case because there is no case that can
be made out and so that was the end
basically of that stage of direct
confrontation with the critics and then
I think they have moved into the last
stage although there you'll probably
still use portions of all of the other
areas but I think domestic
has moved into the final stage and that
is a serious effort to discredit us to
make it appear that we are coupes to
make it appear that we are quarreling
with each other how can the American
public know what really happened that
day if people work on the subject for 10
years or 11 years can't even agree about
what the facts are poke the reporter so
you'll hear that that's what this thing
you're attacking each other and
disagreeing essential questions how can
anyone know let's just forget it it's a
hopeless situation number one number two
so much speculation so many theories
which have no basis in fact that they
must be Cooke's
I read even last night on the Jerry
Williams show and I know Jerry Williams
I mean I knew him when he did when he
believed the wine report in Boston in
Chicago and I know he doesn't believe
anymore he says it on the air he now
says that he's changed dramatically on
that question and he is in fact one of
the strongest allies that those who do
not believe the what the critics of the
report had in the media yeah he too was
talking about the coupes and the people
making statements which I can't follow
and I've been following for 10 years
item no no what they're talking about
etcetera now and this is a major
reporter here who said if he writes
about this he'd have to write about this
conference in a humorous fashion and I
told that to flow and flow said look
they take football games seriously well
I can't take they takes conference
seriously and it's true it's true but
the fact is that we have to I think
developed a strategy of political
strategy which deals with what domestic
intelligence is trying to do to those of
us all of us who has seriously concerned
about seeing this matter high on the
political agenda until there are answers
now I believe as I said last evening I
believe very strongly that we are at a
different period now regarding the
assassination of John Kennedy than we
ever were before 10 years ago
we knew the wine report was a lie and
that was removed as an obstacle and
there's still more proof every once in a
while when you meet a reporter they say
what's the new evidence in the case have
you uncovered any new evidence what's
wrong with the old evidence I mean it
all happened back there November 22nd
1963 all the evidence is 11 years old
that's true sometimes we discover more
information now to let us know something
about what happened then that we didn't
know before but the old evidence is
sufficient I get to look at the Zapruder
film one time you can't believe the
report will read any of the serious
critiques which have been done of a
commission where the Commission's own
evidence has been used to confront the
Commission's own conclusions and you
know you can't believe that we've known
that for a decade but what has changed
now is not that it is clear that we can
prove that the wiring report is a lie we
could have done that 10 years ago and to
the satisfaction of 1966 according to
the Gallup poll of 78% of the American
people we were able to do that then
what's changed between 66 then and 1975
what has changed I think is a political
climate in which it is now possible to
even convince members of Congress and
members of the Senate if they want to
get reelected that they better show some
concern for what we may be able to place
on the political agenda in the days
ahead
I think that's what's changed I think
therefore we have to develop a political
tactic designed to meet that end we can
talk we're gonna have a panel tonight
about whodunit I think it's called
and a few of us are gonna be on that
discussing that I don't know what
anybody else is going to say but I don't
know who did it I don't know who killed
John Kennedy and I don't think really
there very many people at this
conference except maybe those sent here
to listen by the Central Intelligence
Agency or the FBI who really know the
answer and they're not going to be on
the panel tonight but I know that we can
find out who did it and we can find out
how deeply the origin of the murder of
John Kennedy relates back to
domestic intelligence we can find that
out but not by ourselves asking
questions
totally but by seeing to it that the
apparatus of government which is there
to serve us begins to do that by seeing
to it that the people who have subpoena
power power to utilize contempt against
those who want to ask the questions and
perjury indictments against those who
love utilize those powers and I believe
that if we can turn this from something
that from what it has been all these
years
people with generally with a really
healthy curiosity about what happened
into something which is a much higher
stage people with a committed political
perspective and understanding to insist
upon utilizing the apparatus of
government then I think we can get the
answer to that question though all the
questions or many of the questions I
mean we know a thousand and we have a
role to play all of us those of us will
have some particular information who've
done some work and that goes for an
awful lot of people are here dozens of
people were here we can prepare the
questions at the Frank church and counts
of his committee will ask and prepare
the list of witnesses who were to be
subpoenaed and I believe that they will
do that I know we can make them do it I
believe that some of them are now
inclined to do it same thing is true
could Donna Edwards committee same thing
is Q for the CIA select committee which
will be chosen in the House of
Representatives we have a role to play
we can be a liaison between the people
in this country want the facts and the
committee that may lend itself to be a
tool for the people this country
but and that means that means I think
tomorrow we have our plenary session
where we can discuss what we should be
doing that means I think giving a lot of
thought between now and tomorrow and
moving from the insatiable curiosity
about every detail regarding death of
President Kennedy and the other Sasson
Asians into developing a political
movement in this country well we'll get
those answers for the first time
understanding that a convoy moves at the
speed of the slowest ship an
understanding that if someone is
absolutely convinced that he or she
knows who did it but the rest of us
aren't so sure and that we have doubts
that you move at the speed of those who
have the most doubts and that we put
together a comprehensive series of
questions which we want submitted we put
together a petition which should be
brought to every college campus in this
country of starters that we end up by
presenting to Frank Church and Donna
Edwards whoever chairs at CIA Select
Committee in the house millions of
signatures on petitions and letters and
resolutions by organizations all around
this country that we don't allow anybody
to run for any high office without
demonstrations until you answers the
question about what he's done what he's
going to do no matter who that candidate
is I meet on this vital question because
what is the election mean where does it
mean if we worked for six months or a
year to elect a man or a woman because
we believe that that candidate if
elected will change our lives so we can
control our own destinies and then they
blow his head off and Dallas and lie
about it what does all that mean and
that's what we have to say to every
candidate for public office we want to
know what happened then because that's
the only assurance we have that it may
not happen again and we can do that I
think between now and tomorrow we give
serious consideration to how it is we
can put together a viable political
organization to meet the the challenges
that are imposed upon us not just by the
assassination by the cover-up but by the
massive and clever and intricate
domestic intelligence operation designed
against all of us and some of us
specifically but all of us in general
that has thus far kept us from reaching
that that high political perspective in
action which can result in the answers
and I think it would be good if we gave
a lot of thought to that and tomorrow we
got up with ideas and and we left here
tomorrow if we leave here tomorrow with
a committed program because looking at
the saputo film has seen his head blown
off
time after time is not the answer that
just tells us how horrible is the beast
that runs this country but that's not
enough now we have to understand that we
can remove that beast and begin to
control our own lives that's something
we have to do between today and the time
we leave tomorrow
you've been listening to a panel on
domestic intelligence recorded at the
assassination information bureau
conference held January